README.md, before:

# SSHD

Minimal Alpine Linux Docker container with `sshd` exposed and `rsync` installed.

Mount your .ssh credentials (RSA public keys) at `/root/.ssh/` in order to
access the container via root ssh or mount each user's key in
`/etc/authorized_keys/<username>` and set `SSH_USERS` config to create user accounts (see below).

Optionally mount a custom sshd config at `/etc/ssh/`.

## Environment Options

- `SSH_USERS` list of user accounts and uids/gids to create. eg `SSH_USERS=www:48:48,admin:1000:1000`
- `MOTD` change the login message
- `SFTP_MODE` if "true" sshd will only accept sftp connections
- `SFTP_CHROOT` if in sftp only mode sftp will be chrooted to this directory. Default "/data"

## SSH Host Keys

SSH uses host keys to identity the server you are connecting to. To avoid receiving security warning the containers host keys should be mounted on an external volume.

By default this image will create new host keys in `/etc/ssh/keys` which should be mounted on an external volume. If you are using existing keys and they are mounted in `/etc/ssh` this image will use the default host key location making this image compatible with existing setups.

If you wish to configure SSH entirely with environment variables it is suggested that you externally mount `/etc/ssh/keys` instead of `/etc/ssh`.

## SFTP mode

When in sftp only mode (activated by setting `SFTP_MODE=true` the container will only accept sftp connections. All sftp actions will be chrooted to the `SFTP_CHROOT` directory which defaults to "/data".

Please note that all components of the pathname in the ChrootDirectory directive must be root-owned directories that are not writable by any other user or group (see man 5 sshd_config).

## Usage Example

```
docker run -d -p 2222:22 -v /secrets/id_rsa.pub:/root/.ssh/authorized_keys -v /mnt/data/:/data/ docker.io/panubo/sshd
```

or

```
docker run -d -p 2222:22 -v $(pwd)/id_rsa.pub:/etc/authorized_keys/www -e SSH_USERS="www:48:48" docker.io/panubo/sshd
```

Commit message:

Fix .ssh permissions for Windows hosts.
Instead of directly mounting ~/.ssh, you can now mount to ~/.ssh-staging
and the files will be copied to ~/.ssh.

README.md, after:

# SSHD

Minimal Alpine Linux Docker container with `sshd` exposed and `rsync` installed.

Mount your .ssh credentials (RSA public keys) at `/root/.ssh/` in order to
access the container via root ssh or mount each user's key in
`/etc/authorized_keys/<username>` and set `SSH_USERS` config to create user accounts (see below).

Optionally mount a custom sshd config at `/etc/ssh/`.

**Note**: This is a fork of https://github.com/panubo/docker-sshd meant to be used with Windows hosts.  The reason is that with a Windows host, the permissions of `.ssh/authorized_keys` will be wrong, since you can't change the permissions of mounted files.  This fork just copies all files from `/root/.ssh-staging` to `/root/.ssh`, so they can have the correct permissions.

## Environment Options

- `SSH_USERS` list of user accounts and uids/gids to create. eg `SSH_USERS=www:48:48,admin:1000:1000`
- `MOTD` change the login message
- `SFTP_MODE` if "true" sshd will only accept sftp connections
- `SFTP_CHROOT` if in sftp only mode sftp will be chrooted to this directory. Default "/data"

## SSH Host Keys

SSH uses host keys to identity the server you are connecting to. To avoid receiving security warning the containers host keys should be mounted on an external volume.

By default this image will create new host keys in `/etc/ssh/keys` which should be mounted on an external volume. If you are using existing keys and they are mounted in `/etc/ssh` this image will use the default host key location making this image compatible with existing setups.

If you wish to configure SSH entirely with environment variables it is suggested that you externally mount `/etc/ssh/keys` instead of `/etc/ssh`.

## SFTP mode

When in sftp only mode (activated by setting `SFTP_MODE=true` the container will only accept sftp connections. All sftp actions will be chrooted to the `SFTP_CHROOT` directory which defaults to "/data".

Please note that all components of the pathname in the ChrootDirectory directive must be root-owned directories that are not writable by any other user or group (see man 5 sshd_config).

## Usage Example

```
docker build -t mysshd .
docker run --rm -p 2222:22 -v $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub:/root/.ssh-staging/authorized_keys -v myvol:/data/ -v etcssh:/etc/ssh mysshd
```

or

```
docker run -d -p 2222:22 -v /secrets/id_rsa.pub:/root/.ssh/authorized_keys -v /mnt/data/:/data/ docker.io/panubo/sshd
```

or

```
docker run -d -p 2222:22 -v $(pwd)/id_rsa.pub:/etc/authorized_keys/www -e SSH_USERS="www:48:48" docker.io/panubo/sshd
```
